What is the process for admission into Saras AI Institute? - The admission process at Saras AI Institute typically involves submitting the online application form along with necessary details, followed by a quick pre-Enrollment assessment to evaluate your candidature based on your personal traits and basic communication skills in English. | Is there an application fee for applying to Saras AI Institute? - There is no application fee for applying to any program at Saras. | What is pre-enrollment assessment test? How do I prepare for it? - It is a fully online assessment which takes less than 15 minutes. It is designed to evaluate your personal traits and basic English communication skills. You can take it at the time of filling out the application. It does not require any specific preparation. | Are there any specific requirements or prerequisites for admission into the programs? - To be a successful professional in AI, you need to possess basic mathematical proficiency - which can be demonstrated by your math scores in high school or beyond. At Saras, you learn with global peers and faculties and should possess basic communication skills in English. These make up for the basic eligibility criteria. | When is the deadline for submitting the application? - The deadline for submitting applications is 5th August 2024. | What is the curriculum like at Saras AI Institute? - The curriculum at Saras AI Institute helps impart essential technical as well as human skills. We have designed a role-based curriculum that prepares students for one of these in-demand roles: AI/ML Engineer; Data Scientist; Gen AI Engineer. The curriculum is designed to provide a comprehensive understanding of AI principles and practices, including hands-on projects and real-world applications. | What does the program structure look like, and how is the curriculum delivered? - Each year is divided into 5 semesters which last for 8 weeks each. Our programs feature a mix of recorded and live sessions, allowing for flexibility in learning. | Can you provide more details about the role-based curriculum feature and how it benefits students? - Our role-based curriculum is designed to provide targeted training and develop specialized skills in students that are highly relevant to their desired job roles from day one. | Do you also conduct LIVE sessions? - Live sessions are conducted regularly to supplement the recorded content and provide opportunities for interactive learning and Q&A sessions. You get to interact with instructors as well as your dedicated coach for any help that you might need. | Can I transfer credits earned at other universities to Saras AI Institute? - Yes, we evaluate the course that you have taken. If it overlaps with our curriculum and is relevant in today's time, we offer the flexibility of transferring credit. | Who are the faculty members at Saras AI Institute? - The faculty at Saras AI Institute consists of industry professionals who bring the most relevant skills and mentorship for the students to help them prepare for exactly what is needed to succeed in the job roles they are preparing for. | Can I connect with mentors outside of class? - Yes, we encourage mentorship and provide opportunities for students to connect with mentors outside of class through live sessions as well as 24x7 mentor support to help resolve your doubts or queries. | Is Saras AI Institute accredited? - No, we are not accredited yet. This is our first Enrollment cycle and there is a minimum period before an institute can get accredited. However, we do follow the highest standards in terms of the curriculum and pedagogy for our students to become the top AI professionals. | Are the degree programs recognized by the government? - Yes, we are a state-approved degree-granting institute based in the United States. | Do employers require an accredited degree? - An accredited degree is not an absolute requirement from employers. We ensure our students are among the most skilled and ready individuals to crack the best of jobs. | Does Saras AI Institute offer employment support? - Yes, we provide comprehensive employment support including job placement services, resume building workshops, and interview preparation. | Does Saras have partnerships with employers? - Yes, we have partnered with top global companies to recruit our graduating students. | Does the university offer internship placement assistance? - Yes, we assist students in finding internships by connecting them with potential employers and offering guidance on applications and interviews. | Does Saras AI Institute offer any scholarships for students? How can I apply for them? - Yes, we offer various scholarships to eligible students based on academic merit, financial need, and other criteria. You can apply for scholarships after you're offered admission. Go ahead with filling out the application to check your eligibility. | What are the tuition fees for your courses? - You can find detailed information and breakdown of the fee on 'Programs' page on the website. | Are there any payment plans or options available for tuition fees? - Yes, we offer flexible payment plans to help students manage their tuition fees. At Saras AI Institute, you can pay your annual tuition fees in 5 installments, before the commencement of every semester. | Can I avail financial aid? - You currently can't get a federal aid for Saras AI Institute's programs. However, we are partnering with lenders who can help facilitate a loan to help pay the tuition. | World’s first AI-only, US based, 100% online higher education institute looking to build a flourishing career in AI and land that dream job. looking to get into the most in-demand career stream of today. looking to upskill and advance in their careers with a degree in AI. looking to pivot into AI domain and be ready with the skills of tomorrow. A 4-year in-depth program that prepares students to design and build AI applications that solve real-world problems, and land lucrative AI jobs. A 2-year program to prepare students for entry-level positions in AI through hands-on learning and practical projects. Courses in AI can get outdated in weeks. Saras AI follows a proprietary change-management framework for continuously updating courses. Students also participate in live project and a capstone project, gaining practical experience in applying their AI knowledge to real-world challenges. Practitioners in AI industry who are at the forefront, design courses to make sure you develop the latest and the best skills. Comprehensive human skills education that complements the technical curriculum. You improve your emotional intelligence, group communication, critical thinking and more. Role-based curriculum designed to prepare you for a specific role most suited for you, from Day 1. Get access to LIVE sessions with the mentors Gaurav Singh Veteran AI Trainer | Founder - CampusGrad Ritu Kapur Author, Coach, & Behavorial Facilitator | Director, Rainmaker Services | Sasanka Panda Head of Data and Technology, Capita | Advisory Board, Intelligent Automationard Varun Mishra Co-Founder and CTO, STEM Metaverse Tobias Zwingmann AI Expert | Author | Int'l. Keynote Speaker Jean-Claude Franchitti Clinical Associate Professor of Computer Science, NYU Amanmeet Garg CV/ML Scientist at Amazon Prime Video | Investor Gaurav Singh Veteran AI Trainer | Founder - CampusGrad Ritu Kapur Author, Coach, & Behavorial Facilitator | Director, Rainmaker Services | Sasanka Panda Head of Data and Technology, Capita | Advisory Board, Intelligent Automationard Varun Mishra Co-Founder and CTO, STEM Metaverse Tobias Zwingmann AI Expert | Author | Int'l. Keynote Speaker Jean-Claude Franchitti Clinical Associate Professor of Computer Science, NYU Amanmeet Garg CV/ML Scientist at Amazon Prime Video | Investor Gaurav Singh Veteran AI Trainer | Founder - CampusGrad Ritu Kapur Author, Coach, & Behavorial Facilitator | Director, Rainmaker Services | Sasanka Panda Head of Data and Technology, Capita | Advisory Board, Intelligent Automationard Varun Mishra Co-Founder and CTO, STEM Metaverse Comprehensive Personal Assessment Understand your strengths and aspirations through a comprehensive analysis Personalized Success Roadmap An actionable plan based on your assessment that sets you in the right direction Cultivating a Growth Mindset Unlock your full potential by fostering a growth mindset Live 1:1 Sessions with a dedicated Success Coach A mentor, a guide and a friend - packed in one, to help you tackle technical and inter-personal challenges. Comprehensive Personal Assessment Understand your strengths and aspirations through a comprehensive analysis Personalized Success Roadmap An actionable plan based on your assessment that sets you in the right direction Cultivating a Growth Mindset Unlock your full potential by fostering a growth mindset Live 1:1 Sessions with a dedicated Success Coach A mentor, a guide and a friend - packed in one, to help you tackle technical and inter-personal challenges. Comprehensive Personal Assessment Understand your strengths and aspirations through a comprehensive analysis Personalized Success Roadmap An actionable plan based on your assessment that sets you in the right direction Cultivating a Growth Mindset Unlock your full potential by fostering a growth mindset Live 1:1 Sessions with a dedicated Success Coach A mentor, a guide and a friend - packed in one, to help you tackle technical and inter-personal challenges. Comprehensive Personal Assessment Understand your strengths and aspirations through a comprehensive analysis Personalized Success Roadmap An actionable plan based on your assessment that sets you in the right direction Cultivating a Growth Mindset Unlock your full potential by fostering a growth mindset Live 1:1 Sessions with a dedicated Success Coach A mentor, a guide and a friend - packed in one, to help you tackle technical and inter-personal challenges. Top talent from around the world, diverse peers, collaborations & group projects for global exposure. Going above and beyond to help you succeed Why a traditional program in AI doesn’t give you the outcomes you deserve Our programs fully equip you with the skills of today and everything else that industry needs Higher salaries for AI roles v/s those in IT Avg salary of AI/ML engineers AI's contribution to global economy by 2030 New jobs to be created by AI by 2025 Professor, North Carolina State University Assistant Dean and Chief Learning Officer, University of Illinois Head of Department, AI at IIT Hyderabad Vice Chancellor, IILM Co-chair, WEF Council on AI, Distinguished Professor of CS @UC Berkeley Head of AI Research, Google Cloud AI Scientist, Ex- Lead AI Educator at Apple Ex-Director at IIT BHU, Professor at IIT Roorkee Founder, Generative AI & AI4Diversity, Global AI Evangelist Ditinguished Professor of AI, CMU. Ex - Global AI lead, PwC Chairman and Co-Founder at Insight Enterprises Ex-Senior Scientist at Memorial Sloan-Kettering and NYU, Associate Professor at Mount Sinai AI, Digital Transformation Executive at Greystone Global Account lead at Avanade Professor, North Carolina State University Assistant Dean and Chief Learning Officer, University of Illinois Head of Department, AI at IIT Hyderabad Vice Chancellor, IILM Co-chair, WEF Council on AI, Distinguished Professor of CS @UC Berkeley Head of AI Research, Google Cloud AI Scientist, Ex- Lead AI Educator at Apple Ex-Director at IIT BHU, Professor at IIT Roorkee Founder, Generative AI & AI4Diversity, Global AI Evangelist Ditinguished Professor of AI, CMU. Ex - Global AI lead, PwC Chairman and Co-Founder at Insight Enterprises Ex-Senior Scientist at Memorial Sloan-Kettering and NYU, Associate Professor at Mount Sinai AI, Digital Transformation Executive at Greystone Global Account lead at Avanade Professor, North Carolina State University Assistant Dean and Chief Learning Officer, University of Illinois Head of Department, AI at IIT Hyderabad Vice Chancellor, IILM Tawnya Means Those who are knowledgeable about AI will be sought after, while those who do not know it will be left behind. Saras AI's mission to offer quality AI education alongside success coaching is pivotal in preparing future AI leaders globally. By equipping individuals with both technical expertise and the strategic mindset needed to navigate the complexities of AI, Saras AI cultivates leadership capabilities essential for driving innovation and sustainable growth in the AI landscape. Dr Padmakali Banerjee AI can be equated to the next industrial revolution, empowering one to do the work of many.It is radically changing the way organisations make critical decisions, this will in turn give way to new career pathways.The path breaking future skills and education initiatives of Saras AI Institute will have a lasting impact through accessible, efficient, equitable, industry integrated data- driven educational experiences in empowering youth for a better tomorrow. Dr. Anand S. Rao AI is transitioning from a research area into an engineering discipline and getting embedded into every science, engineering, business, and industry sector. As a result the demand for people who can apply AI will increase significantly. Training executives, scientists, and engineers of tomorrow to apply AI in their respective disciplines is a mammoth undertaking. The unique manner by which Saras is addressing this opportunity is commendable. Rob Leach The massive demand for AI skills directly aligns with the mission of Saras AI to provide top-tier AI education and success coaching, two skills which are critical in building the next generation of AI leaders. Saras AI is well positioned to empower individuals all over the world with the necessary skills and knowledge to lead, innovate and transform the AI space for years to come. Florence Martin The rapid advancements in AI technologies are reshaping and revolutionizing various industries.This creates new job opportunities requiring advanced technical skills.Saras AI is positioned to provide top notch AI education in preparing AI professionals to leverage various applications of AI, analyze real- world problems, design and evaluate solutions, and contribute to AI projects with an ethical landscape. Tawnya Means Those who are knowledgeable about AI will be sought after, while those who do not know it will be left behind. Saras AI's mission to offer quality AI education alongside success coaching is pivotal in preparing future AI leaders globally. By equipping individuals with both technical expertise and the strategic mindset needed to navigate the complexities of AI, Saras AI cultivates leadership capabilities essential for driving innovation and sustainable growth in the AI landscape. Dr Padmakali Banerjee AI can be equated to the next industrial revolution, empowering one to do the work of many.It is radically changing the way organisations make critical decisions, this will in turn give way to new career pathways.The path breaking future skills and education initiatives of Saras AI Institute will have a lasting impact through accessible, efficient, equitable, industry integrated data- driven educational experiences in empowering youth for a better tomorrow. Dr. Anand S. Rao AI is transitioning from a research area into an engineering discipline and getting embedded into every science, engineering, business, and industry sector. As a result the demand for people who can apply AI will increase significantly. Training executives, scientists, and engineers of tomorrow to apply AI in their respective disciplines is a mammoth undertaking. The unique manner by which Saras is addressing this opportunity is commendable. Rob Leach The massive demand for AI skills directly aligns with the mission of Saras AI to provide top-tier AI education and success coaching, two skills which are critical in building the next generation of AI leaders. Saras AI is well positioned to empower individuals all over the world with the necessary skills and knowledge to lead, innovate and transform the AI space for years to come. Florence Martin The rapid advancements in AI technologies are reshaping and revolutionizing various industries.This creates new job opportunities requiring advanced technical skills.Saras AI is positioned to provide top notch AI education in preparing AI professionals to leverage various applications of AI, analyze real- world problems, design and evaluate solutions, and contribute to AI projects with an ethical landscape. Tawnya Means Those who are knowledgeable about AI will be sought after, while those who do not know it will be left behind. Saras AI's mission to offer quality AI education alongside success coaching is pivotal in preparing future AI leaders globally. By equipping individuals with both technical expertise and the strategic mindset needed to navigate the complexities of AI, Saras AI cultivates leadership capabilities essential for driving innovation and sustainable growth in the AI landscape. Dr Padmakali Banerjee AI can be equated to the next industrial revolution, empowering one to do the work of many.It is radically changing the way organisations make critical decisions, this will in turn give way to new career pathways.The path breaking future skills and education initiatives of Saras AI Institute will have a lasting impact through accessible, efficient, equitable, industry integrated data- driven educational experiences in empowering youth for a better tomorrow. Dr. Anand S. Rao AI is transitioning from a research area into an engineering discipline and getting embedded into every science, engineering, business, and industry sector. As a result the demand for people who can apply AI will increase significantly. Training executives, scientists, and engineers of tomorrow to apply AI in their respective disciplines is a mammoth undertaking. The unique manner by which Saras is addressing this opportunity is commendable. Copyright ©️ NETED SOLUTIONS INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED. All Rights Reserved
 | Our programs are designed to prepare you for a specific AI job role of your choice since day 1,with a focus on practical and hands-on learning. The curriculum is a right culmination of technical and human skills along with 1:1 success coaching Practitioners in industry who are at the forefront and the cutting edge of AI design courses to make sure you develop the latest and the best skills. Students will also participate in a capstone project, gaining practical experience in applying their knowledge to real- world AI challenges. Courses in AI can get outdated in weeks. Saras AI follows a proprietary change-management framework for continuously updating courses. You deserve a degree which gets you ready for a specific role in the industry when you graduate. Our curriculum is designed to do just that. We provide comprehensive human skills education that complements the technical curriculum. You improve your emotional intelligence, group communication, critical thinking and more. We work tirelessly with you to ensure you land your dream job - industry partnerships for opportunities, interview prep, resume building and more. You get more than 2x return on your investment, within the 1st year of employment. AI/ML Engineer (indeed.com) Data Scientist (indeed.com) Generative AI Engineer (glassdoor.com) We offer scholarships to the most deserving students, so that finance doesn’t become a barrier in the pursuit of your dream career. Use the menu to navigate the catalog, and learn more about Saras AI programs, courses and policies. Copyright ©️ NETED SOLUTIONS INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED. All Rights Reserved
 | Take the first step on the pathway to become an AI leader We offer scholarships to the most deserving students, so that finance doesn’t become a barrier in the pursuit of your dream career A 4-year in-depth program that prepares students to design and build AI applications that solve real-world problems, and land lucrative AI jobs. A 2-year program to prepare students for entry-level positions in AI through hands-on learning and practical projects. Fill out the form and our team will get in touch in no time Copyright ©️ NETED SOLUTIONS INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED. All Rights Reserved
 | Nelson Mandela AI holds the potential to solve humanity's greatest challenges. Imagine a future powered by AI, led by responsible and compassionate young leaders. At Saras, our goal is to make this dream a reality. Saras AI Institute is a US-based, state-approved degree-granting institution redefining AI education. As the world's first AI-exclusive higher education institute, we’re setting a new standard in how Artificial Intelligence is taught and perceived. We are building the most student-centric educational institute on the planet, driven by three key pillars: We believe that education is the most powerful weapon to change the world for good. Join us as we harness the power of quality (AI) education and create a brighter future for all. To transform lives by providing quality AI and human skills education to learners worldwide. To be the most student-centric educational institution on the planet, nurturing responsible and compassionate leaders who make the world a better place. We lead with a Student Centric mindset. We continuously elevate the student experience while keeping their success and well-being are our top priorities. Guided by the "Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam " principle, we cultivate an ethical, interconnected mindset that promotes cultural understanding, empathy, and collaboration across borders. We embrace a sense of unity and mutual support within our global, diverse, and inclusive community, fostering an environment where everyone feels welcomed and valued. We are lifelong learners. We build human-centric solutions to address real-world challenge Founder & President With over 25 years of organizational leadership experience, Anil founded Microsoft Cloud Services company, Hanu, and led it for 15 years before successful exit to Insight. Anil holds degrees from NYU and IIT. Chief Academic Officer & Co-Founder AI expert with eight years of experience as a Computer Science professor at the University of Missouri , Anshuman was a curriculum architect with DeepLearning.AI. COO & Co-Founder A seasoned professional with a PhD in HRM, Amit served on university boards and holds professorial roles and has been recognized among Asia's Top 100 HR Power Leaders. Chief Technology Officer A seasoned Education Technology expert and IIT Delhi alumnus with over 16 years of experience, Aman excels in designing innovative products that empower and inspire young, enthusiastic students. Chief Success Officer A Transformation expert and an Author. An IIT-BHU Alumni with 20+ years experience in  leadership role in IT and  Financial services organization Chief Growth Officer A growth marketing leader with over 9 years of experience, dedicated to delivering top-tier learning solutions to students across diverse demographics for the past 4 years through EdTech startups. Professor, North Carolina State University Assistant Dean and Chief Learning Officer, University of Illinois Head of Department, AI at IIT Hyderabad Vice Chancellor, IILM Co-chair, WEF Council on AI, Distinguished Professor of CS @UC Berkeley Head of AI Research, Google Cloud AI Scientist, Ex- Lead AI Educator at Apple Ex-Director at IIT BHU, Professor at IIT Roorkee Founder, Generative AI & AI4Diversity, Global AI Evangelist Ditinguished Professor of AI, CMU. Ex - Global AI lead, PwC Chairman and Co-Founder at Insight Enterprises Ex-Senior Scientist at Memorial Sloan-Kettering and NYU, Associate Professor at Mount Sinai AI, Digital Transformation Executive at Greystone Global Account lead at Avanade Professor, North Carolina State University Assistant Dean and Chief Learning Officer, University of Illinois Head of Department, AI at IIT Hyderabad Vice Chancellor, IILM Co-chair, WEF Council on AI, Distinguished Professor of CS @UC Berkeley Head of AI Research, Google Cloud AI Scientist, Ex- Lead AI Educator at Apple Ex-Director at IIT BHU, Professor at IIT Roorkee Founder, Generative AI & AI4Diversity, Global AI Evangelist Ditinguished Professor of AI, CMU. Ex - Global AI lead, PwC Chairman and Co-Founder at Insight Enterprises Ex-Senior Scientist at Memorial Sloan-Kettering and NYU, Associate Professor at Mount Sinai AI, Digital Transformation Executive at Greystone Global Account lead at Avanade Professor, North Carolina State University Assistant Dean and Chief Learning Officer, University of Illinois Head of Department, AI at IIT Hyderabad Vice Chancellor, IILM Copyright ©️ NETED SOLUTIONS INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED. All Rights Reserved
 | Whether you're a prospective student looking for program details, a parent seeking information about our curriculum, or a current student with inquiries about your studies, we're here to help. Fill out the form and our team will get in touch in no time Copyright ©️ NETED SOLUTIONS INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED. All Rights Reserved
